today I'd like to talk with you about a
subject that
on everybody's mind and that's the state
of Arcana
yesterday we received a report on our
gross domestic product that's a measure
of our overall economic performance the
report showed that in the first few
months of this year the recession we
faced when I took office was even deeper
than anyone thought at the time it told
us how close we were to the edge but it
also revealed that in the last few
months the economy has done measurably
better than expected and many economists
suggest that part of this progress is
directly attributable to the Recovery
Act this and the other difficult but
important steps that we've taken over
the last six months have helped put the
brakes on this recession we took
unprecedented action to stem the spread
of foreclosures by helping responsible
homeowners stay in their homes and pay
their mortgages we helped to revive the
credit markets and open up loans for
families and small businesses and we
enacted a Recovery Act that puts tax
cuts directly into the pockets of
middle-class families and small
businesses extended unemployment
insurance and health insurance for folks
who have lost their jobs provided relief
to struggling States to prevent layoffs
of teachers and police officers and made
investments that are putting people back
to work rebuilding and renovating roads
bridges schools and hospitals now I
realize that none of this is much
comfort for Americans who are still out
of work or struggling to make ends meet
and when we receive our monthly job
report next week it's likely to show
that we are continuing to lose far too
many jobs in this country as far as I'm
concerned we will not have a recovery as
long as we keep losing jobs and I won't
rest until every American who wants a
job can find one but history shows that
you need to have economic growth before
you have job growth and the report
yesterday on our economy is an important
sign that we're headed in the right
direction business investment which had
been plummeting in the past few months
is showing signs of stabilizing this
means that eventually businesses will
start growing and hiring again and
that's when it will really feel like
recovery to the American people this
won't happen overnight as I've said
before it will take many more months to
fully dig ourselves out of a recession
recession that we've now learned was
even deeper than anyone thought but I'll
continue to work every day and take
every step necessary to make sure that
happens I also want to make sure that we
don't return to an economy where our
growth is based on inflated profits and
maxed out credit cards because that
doesn't create a lot of jobs even as we
rescue this economy we must work to
rebuild it stronger than before we've
got to build a new foundation strong
enough to withstand future economic
storms and support lasting prosperity
next week I'll be talking about that new
foundation when I head to Elkhart County
in Indiana a city hard hit not only by
the economic crisis of recent months but
by the broader economic changes of
recent decades for communities like
Elkhart to thrive we need to recapture
the spirit of innovation that has always
moved America forward that means once
again having the best educated highest
skilled workforce in the world that
means a healthcare system that makes it
possible for entrepreneurs to innovate
and businesses to compete without being
saddled with skyrocketing insurance
costs that means leading the world in
building a new clean energy economy with
the potential to unleash a wave of
innovation and economic growth while
ending our dependence on foreign oil and
that means investing in the research and
development that will produce the
technologies of the future which in turn
will help create the industries and jobs
of the future innovation has been
essential to our prosperity in the past
and it will be essential to our
prosperity in the future but it's only
by building a new foundation that we
will once again harness that incredible
generative capacity of the American
people all it takes are the policies to
tap that potential to ignite that spark
of creativity and ingenuity which has
always been at the heart of who we are
and how we succeed at a time when folks
are experiencing real hardship after
years in which we've seen so many fail
to take responsibility for our
collective future it's important to keep
our eyes fixed on that horizon every day
I hear from Americans who are feeling
firsthand the pain of this recession
these are folks who share their stories
with me in letters at town hall meetings
folks who remain in my mind and on my
agenda each and every day I know that
there are countless families and
businesses struggling to just hang on
until this storm passes but I also know
that if we do the things we know we must
this storm will pass and it will yield a
brighter day
you